# REU 2022

## Overview

Information technology is playing a dramatically increasing role in
society, industry, and research. This includes design and use of large
databases, simulations and artificial intelligence applications hosted
on clouds and supercomputers with convergent
technologies. Correspondingly, there is an increasing need for
research workforce job skills in these and related areas. This project
takcourse material
on this cyberinfrastructure and adapts it for training with an
emphasis on the needs of under-represented communities. The techniques
of the successful open source software movement are used to create
sustainable communities around the course curriculum and software. The
project is creating new technologies to enable this for today's
generation of students. Skills in core cloud computing, big data,
supercomputing and artificial intelligence are exemplified by
applications in the life science and nanotechnology areas. This
project enables the future research workforce to contribute
effectively using advanced cyberinfrastructure, promoting the progress
of science and advancing the national health, prosperity, and welfare,
which serves the national interest, as stated by NSF's mission.

The future economic progress and research leadership of the U.S. is
dependent on having a research workforce that is capable of making use
of advanced cyberinfrastructure (CI) resources as articulated by the
National Strategic Computing Initiative (NSCI). This requires a
curriculum that changes and integrates modern concepts and practices
for the new generation of students aiming at a "data-enabled
computational science and engineering" expertise. This project takes
what Indiana University has learned from a brand new four-year
undergraduate engineering curriculum designed ab initio and taught so
far to its first two undergraduate classes, and invests it into
developing active training modules. The innovative curriculum
integrates big data, simulations, clouds and high performance
computing systems presented in a uniform framework. The course
material is customized for communities of cyberinfrastructure
researchers nucleated, built, and sustained via the dynamic use of
GitHub and enhanced by innovative tools to build a novel learning
management system optimized for cyberinfrastructure-intensive
classes. The project modules include Cloud Computing, Big Data
Applications and Analytics, Networking, High-Performance Computing,
Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning, and Information
Visualization. There are residential sessions, with a call for
participants, and purely online courses and these have both "teach the
student" and "teach the teacher" modes; the latter enables easy spread
of the classes. Hands-on learning with research projects built around
the class material is fully supported. The project offers
CyberTraining with all of the popular approaches used by the Apache
Software Foundation, including Meetups and Hackathons. Modules for
domain scientists and engineers, e.g., the cyberinfrastructure users
that exploit advanced CI methods for research in nanoengineering and
bioengineering are included. Both students and teachers contribute to
the course improving the text, the software, including a unique set of
examples and the project aims to show that one can build both learning
and sustainability communities by using the proven techniques of the
open source software community. The project uses proactive measures to
enhance the involvement of under-represented communities in its
activities.

This award reflects NSF's statutory mission and has been deemed worthy
of support through evaluation using the Foundation's intellectual
merit and broader impacts review criteria.

This grant was started under [NSF Award
1829704](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1829704) amd
transitioned to University of Virginia In November 2021 under [the NSF
awrad Number
2200409](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2200409).
ath the Bicomplexity Institute at the University of Virginia.
Administrative support was provided by the BII UVA Global Challenges
program. For most students , the program lasted from June 2nd, 2022
until July 29th, 2022.  One student was funded for an additional
month.


